Now, this guy here, we want to take a look at this after the experiment of tents and fill up.
They were crushed.
They were like, What the hell is going on?
We had discovered this nice transformation, this galley and transformation.
It dictates that if we shoot a laser in a moving reference frame, the person who is stationary should
observe that the velocity of that light is the velocity of the spaceship, plus the velocity of the
light.
But that was not the case, though.
They said, Well, I take a step back.
I need to observe what is going on in the universe.
I need to analyze the assumptions I made and try to understand the phenomena that is transpiring in
front of me.
Remember, again, we do not prescribe how the universe should behave.
Rather, we observe what occurs in front of us.
Study it and take what we can extract from that observations to develop theories which help to guide
us and allow us to predict how things are going to happen in the future.
That's how good science is done.
That's how good physics is done.
And this is what Terrance and Phillip want to do to try to correct their errors that they observed by
not accounting for postulate number two.
OK, so what did they do?
What kind of assumptions did they make in their initial experiment?
Well, one assumption they made is we're going to write out here is that if you have this very fast
reference frame a spaceship, if you will, and it has a clock and somebody stationary has a clock,
you sync them up right when the referee starts to move.
What they asserted is that the time if I get the right marker, the time Delta T.
Is equal to Delta T Prime.
In essence, they asserted that time is constant regardless of your reverence.
It's absolute.
It's universal.
And in an everyday sense, that's something we take for granted, right?
If you give somebody a clock a smartphone, for example, they drive really fast in a car, you would
expect their conception of time to be the same as your conception of time.
But again, that's a limited snapshot of the full picture of reality of the full picture of the universe.
If you dig a bit further beneath the surface, you're going to discover that the universe behaves in
very odd ways as a consequence of accepting that the speed of light is constant.
OK, so we cannot assume this.
Let's not make this assumption again.
We're not going to prescribe how the universe should behave based upon what we expect.
Rather, we're going to take our notions of the universe, throw into the trash can and instead observe
and extract what we can from what we observe and develop.
Understanding from that a rich understanding of the universe.
OK, so what we're going to have to do is we're going to have to do another experiment.
Let's take a look at this assumption.
Transit Phillips say.
I do not like this assumption.
I'm trying to prescribe reality.
How reality should behave.
I learned I should not do that for my four year experiment.
Let's see if our conception of time is different.
If we account for this postulate, OK, so in order to take a look at how time flows, how their clocks
are going to tick, if you will.
Well, Terrance and Phillip, do they develop a new experiment?
They take their Star Wars ship from the previous experiment.
They take their laser beam and they say, OK.
Let's develop our conception of time based upon what we know is real.
We know that in any given second, any interval of time or between any two events that happen, the
speed of light is always going to be constant.
So let's try to develop our conception of time around that.
OK.
So what they do is they say, OK, I'm going to take that laser beam and I'm going to have the laser
beam, how a detector on it.
It's going to shoot a laser up to a mirror.
It's going to get reflected.
It's going to come back and then it's going to detect that light.
And based upon this machine, I can figure out how time is going to progress.
I can figure out the length of time between any two events.
Those are the keywords I want you to remember to events.
OK.
So let me erase this top portion here, and then we can dive into how we're actually going to put this
experiment together and see the amazing results.
It's going to dive walls, which are going to have very weird consequences associated with them.
But those consequences arise as a fact or rather due to accepting that the speed of light is constant.
So we're going to have to reference frames the strengths which is attached to the Earth where we have
fill up and Terence is going to be in the ship.
He's going to ride again.
He's going to start the detection process where he shoots a flash of light.
That's the first event.
It gets reflected back.
And then when you detect it, when you detect that, that's the second event.
So if we're in the reference frame of Terence S. Prime, just explain why prime the coordinates and
he's he's flying at a very high speed point nine five times the speed of light.
We know that the flash of light and the detection of light are going to occur in the same place.
Or that seems plausible, right?
If you shoot a laser beam, it's a mirror and it comes back.
You have not moved your ex and your y of that event have remained constant.
Right?
So explain why prime and prime are not going to change between the flash of light and the detection
of light.
The light moves.
The detector remains stationary now at the same time.
We're going to have fill up.
He's going to stay on the Earth in a reference frame s with X and Y, and he's going to enlist his partner,
Eric, who's also going to assist with this.
And they're going to say that we're going to measure the same exact time between these two events.
I'm going to look at you as you shoot a flash of light through.
It's going to bounce off the mirror and when it comes back.
I'm going to measure it, so.
This is it economy, this is a sense of asymmetry between the two.
And this is evoked by design and special.
Keep that in mind in the reference frame.
S.
We need two people because the flash of light and the detection of light do not occur in the same place.
I'm going to say that again, the flash of light and the detection of light are not synonymous.
They do not occur in the same place.
So in order to streamline this effort, you can figure out if this guy, the spaceship is traveling
the relative at a constant speed.
Which is what we need through the possibilities of special relativity.
Point nine, five time see, we can space up Eric and fill up such that when the light is produced or
it is detected there at the same exact place and they can stop their own clocks and compare times now.
In the moving reference frame, things are not super interesting.
We see tariffs is like, I'm going to examine time, I'm going to get this answer.
That's why he's happy.
That's why he's super excited.
And he says, Baby, my conception of time is just going to be the length.
Between the detector at the bottom and the mirror at the top, the Delta y prime, that's over the speed
of light.
OK, so what did I do here?
This is basically, you know, this is Delta Y Prime is equal to you.
See, Delta T Prime, OK?
It's prime because we're in the moving reference frame.
OK, so.
If we take this and we know that is the distance between these guys.
Well, this is just easy.
The other thing prime is no more than two times D or C, whoa, what I do there.
So we know that the light has to go up and then has to come back.
So that means, well, it's going up.
It traverses this distance D and then when it comes down, it's reverses back down a distance deep.
So we get two times this distance.
D, we know that the speed of light is.
Again, this is where you invoke the second posture a special relativity, and we're going to leave
that there.
So I'm going to put that as the very important result.
Little boring.
This is what we would observe every day on Earth if we did this experiment.
You know, Terrence does this and he's like, Oh, baby, I'm frickin happy.
Nothing has changed.
Maybe our conception of time is absolute.
Maybe what we assumed in our experiment is correct, and this is not the source of the problem.
Well, lo and behold, we go back to Earth and that reference frame.
We have Eric and Phil up here and we're keeping track of this.
And what they say is that unlike Terrence, the light cannot go straight up.
Why?
Why can the light not go straight up?
Because if it did, it would go up.
This mirror would move to the right.
Oh, and it would miss the mirror.
It would not be reflected back.
So in order or rather, the light that is reflected back that is detected in order to get a detection,
rather, it must move at a slight angle here.
So Eric and Phillip, they see that the light has to go along this this distance here and then maybe
longer.
It may be shorter.
We don't know yet.
What we do know is that it's going to travel at the speed of light, and we could take the fact that
it has to move at this angle and we can do some cool geometry stuff, right?
Right.
We can extract some triangles and do all that trigonometry.
So if we do that, what we find is I'm going to use a different color.
We can say, Hey, wait a second here.
We're going to have this blue line here, and I'm going to redraw this offer here, I know it's it's
not the best picture.
Really at this triangle here.
And we could form two right triangles.
As follows, and we know that between Eric and fill up or the time in which the light is flashed and
the detection, we know that this whole guy, this guy.
This is going to be the.
Apathy, or V is B relative, we know that this is moving to the right at a constant speed.
So again, it's just what we did up here and writing this right.
Dr. X is equal to a v delta T, and we also know and again, let's back up.
I want to make sure you understand this.
Delta C What is Delta T?
Delta Thi is the time that is measured by Eric and Phil up on Earth.
The s reference frame and we know that when it goes up and comes back down, it transpires.
The time we're trying to measure, we want to compare Delta T.
Without the sea prime.
And see if this relation is true.
OK.
And we're doing that by measuring the time transpired at the time calculated with respect to a reference
frame.
Between these two events.
OK, so we have a. we know along this guy or, yeah, this this leg here, this has to be T, right?
This didn't change at all.
The distance between here, it can move as fast as a once that life is not changing in the y axis,
that's going to remain.
And we know that the length that light travels, it's going to be C Delta T, but to get up to the mirror
to get up here.
That's half of the journey, right half of the journey.
So that should be Delta T over two.
Right, right.
So this guy is described as the Delta T over two.
OK, now if we take this fact when this reality and I extrapolate this triangle.
And draw a prettier picture.
What we get is this right triangle, we have d there now one.
One foot of this triangle is not going to up t.
Rather, we know that it takes half the time to go up and half the time to come back because we have
a kind of velocity.
So at the point of reflection, this is half of the journey, half of the trip.
So this guy, this guy should be the hands of time that it transpires that it's just Delta T over two
again, from here to here is half a trip.
That's half of the time.
OK.
Same thing we did with this guy up here.
So if we take that and go like so.
We get this triangle here, and we could do some nice trigonometry.
OK.
We know that.
This squared using the Pythagorean theorem, baby is equal to this squared plus not squared.
So let's do that.
OK, so if we do see.
Delta T. Over to we square that guy.
The hypotenuse is equal to.
The.
Delta T or two squared?
Plus, he squared.
All right.
So you probably thinking why in the world could we do with this?
Is this pretty common?
Well, let's massage the equation a bit and see what a divulges again.
We're taking what we observe a reality that light is constant and trying to extract the consequences
as a result of that not dictate how reality behaves, let it behave as it does observe it, study it,
extract understanding out that's what we're doing right here.
OK, so let's take these these squares here and see what happens so we can have c squared Delta T squared
over four.
I'm going to move this left minus v squared Delta T squared or four.
And that is going to be equal to d squared.
All right, now, we want to form some conception of time, so we might want to pull out a Delta T at
some point.
But I'm going to multiply by four and pull up a T here.
So we get Delta T squared is equal to C squared minus B squared.
And.
That is equal to for the square.
OK, so now I'm going to do something tricky.
I'm going to try to factor out the C squared.
And you're going to see why soon.
So what we're trying to do just to make sure you're on par with what we're doing and what the derivations
in the book are trying to do.
They don't usually get a lot of steps.
We're trying to take this guy.
And compare it to this guy.
So in order to get some kind of relation, we need this guy to pop out in this equation somehow.
So we're going to need a driver to d oversee, OK?
We see this if you take a square root here that gives us two d, so we need that extra C, and that's
why I'm factoring this guy up.
OK.
So what we get is Delta C squared.
C squared on one minus the quantity the obasi squared is equal to for the squared.
All right.
So this guy is going to be important as second, because this sort of like your relative speed relative
to the speed of light.
But we'll get there eventually.
Now we want to do is take the square root and we end up with.
I'm also going to divide by D.
OK, so we get Delta T the time as measured on Earth.
If I multiply by the square root.
One might just be overseen.
This quantity squared that's going to be equal to two D.
Oversee.
Now you're probably seeing this this connection, and you're probably like, Oh.
This is way in which Terrance and Phillip can relate their time such that we get this universal, absolute
conception.
Between the two reference frames, right?
We're trying to compare the phenomena and see if it matches up, we can tell right now it doesn't,
which means that some weird relative is relativistic effects arise.
OK, so we want to take this.
And realize that we could just throw that baby right in there.
And what we get is that we get the important results.
Delta team.
Is equal to.
If we divide this one over the square root one minus V or C quantity squared.
And Delta T pry.
Whew, that looks interesting.
Now we're going to simplify this a bit further.
I'm going to say that we got a lot of stuff going on here, a lot of stuff going on.
So I'm going to try to factor this guy out and I'm going to say this is like.
Delta T is equal to one over the square root of one minus beta squared, where beta is VRC, that's
the relativistic speed relative to the speed of light.
And Deputy Prime.
And then.
We're going to say.
Rice, this guy.
We're going to put Delta T.
Prime.
And what I'm going to assert is that we can simplify this a bit more.
We're going to call it Delta T is equal to Janna.
I'm Delta T, right, where gamma is equal to one over the square root of one minus beta squared.
And Theta is equal to be over.
See?
All right.
So.
We got this result.
What exactly does it mean?
It's one thing to do physics.
It's one thing to do math.
But the real physics is hidden beneath the layers beneath the interpretation of the results you get.
So what in the world is this telling?
If this is telling us a very interesting thing and this is why Philip is freaking out, he's like,
Oh my God, what did I just figure out what in the world?
And you know, Eric is just stupid over here.
He's just smiling.
Still, he's like, what?
But anyway, he's just helping with the experiment.
He's a lab rat.
What we just discovered is that.
The time of these events are flashing a light and detecting the lights on the rocket as observed as
observed by somebody in reference frame s.
Or fill and Eric.
That time.
Is different, it's different than the time observed by Terrence.
Whoa, wait a second.
Where this is really weird, right?
In everyday language, everyday observations, this is something that would not easily arise, right?
Time is time.
It flows at a constant rate.
However, remember what I said?
Our Newtonian perspective of reality is limited.
It's a limited snapshot of a bigger picture.
If you dive beneath the surface and start analyzing the universe at different situations, we're rather
in different circumstances.
What you find is that special ideas arise, and this really is a consequence of accepting the fact which
we have observed through many, many experiments.
That light is is constant, right?
The consequence that arises is that the flow of time is different from different observers.
All right.
And what I'm going to say is this factor here is the factor that determines how it's different and it's
a function of the speed of that reference plane.
A reference frame, OK.
So this guy is known as a Lorenz factor.
And what we're going to do next is we're going to take a look at how this changes our conception of
reality.
What other consequences it has.
And some other interesting ideas.
Stay tuned.